Investment Portfolio Management System
Overview
The Investment Portfolio Management System is a Python-based application designed to assist users in managing stock portfolios by predicting modified Sharpe ratios and providing trading recommendations. It integrates machine learning, technical analysis, and insider trading insights to optimize trading strategies, offering both automated and user-driven options through a graphical user interface (GUI). The system fetches financial data, computes indicators, trains predictive models, and visualizes performance metrics, enabling informed buy, sell, hold, short, or cover decisions to maximize profit-to-risk-to-time ratios.
System Architecture
The project comprises four core modules:

Insider Trading Module: Scores stakeholder transactions using rule-based weights to optimize share allocations in trading strategies.
Data Pipeline Module: Fetches historical stock data, computes technical indicators (e.g., PSAR, MFI, MVP), generates trading signals, and ensures data quality through cleaning.
Prediction Module: Trains six machine learning models and integrates them via three ensemble methods for precise Sharpe ratio forecasts.
Portfolio & Interface Module: Executes user-driven or automated trading strategies via a PyQt5-based GUI, providing performance visualizations and trade history.

Features

Portfolio Setup: Configure investment amount, risk level (0–10), and date range for analysis.
Trading Recommendations: Generate buy, sell, short, or cover suggestions based on predictive models and user inputs.
Dashboard: Visualize portfolio performance, including value over time, Sharpe ratio distributions, and trade action breakdowns.
Data Processing: Fetch stock data from Yahoo Finance, compute technical indicators, and preprocess for model training.
Machine Learning: Six models (SVR, XGBoost, LightGBM, Random Forest, Gradient Boosting, LSTM) combined via three ensemble methods (linearly weighted, equal weighted, GBDT).
Insider Insights: Incorporate stakeholder transaction scores to enhance trading decisions.

Prerequisites

Python 3.8+
Libraries: pandas, numpy, scikit-learn, yfinance, matplotlib, seaborn, tensorflow, xgboost, lightgbm, PyQt5
Input: Historical stock data (CSV or fetched via yfinance)
Environment: Local or virtual setup with sufficient memory for ML training

Installation

Clone the repository:git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-repo-name.git
cd your-repo-name


Create and activate a virtual environment:python -m venv venv


Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
macOS/Linux: source venv/bin/activate


Install dependencies:pip install -r requirements.txt

If requirements.txt is unavailable, install manually:pip install pandas numpy scikit-learn yfinance matplotlib seaborn tensorflow xgboost lightgbm PyQt5



Usage

Backend Execution:

Run the main backend script:python main.py


This processes data, trains models, and generates predictions.


Frontend Execution:

Run the GUI application:python front_main.py


Select a CSV file with stock data (format: Date, Ticker, Close, Best_Prediction, optional Actual_Sharpe).
Configure portfolio settings (investment amount, risk level, date range) in the "Portfolio Setup" tab.
Click "Execute Trading Strategy" to generate recommendations.
View results in the "Recommendations" and "Dashboard" tabs.


Outputs:

Data: Processed stock data with technical indicators and predictions.
Visualizations: Charts for portfolio value, Sharpe ratios, trade actions, and performance metrics.
Recommendations: Trading suggestions (buy, sell, short, cover) based on model outputs.
Logs: Trade history and performance metrics stored for analysis.



Data Format
The system expects stock data in CSV format with:

Date: YYYY-MM-DD
Ticker: Stock symbol
Close: Closing price
Best_Prediction: Predicted Sharpe ratio
Optional: Actual_Sharpe (defaults to -1.0 if unavailable)

Data is fetched from Yahoo Finance via yfinance or provided as a CSV in the data directory.
Methodology

Data Pipeline:

Fetch historical stock data using yfinance.
Compute technical indicators: Parabolic SAR (PSAR), Money Flow Index (MFI), Moving Volatility Pattern (MVP).
Clean data by removing outliers and handling missing values.
Generate trading signals based on indicators and insider transaction scores.


Insider Trading Scoring:

Apply rule-based weights to stakeholder transactions (e.g., volume, timing) to score trading opportunities.
Integrate scores into trading strategy optimization.


Prediction:

Train six models: Support Vector Regression (SVR), XGBoost, LightGBM, Random Forest, Gradient Boosting, LSTM.
Combine predictions using three ensemble methods: linearly weighted, equal weighted, Gradient Boosting Decision Tree (GBDT).
Output: Predicted modified Sharpe ratios for trading decisions.


Portfolio Management:

Execute trades (automated or semi-automated) based on user inputs and model predictions.
Visualize performance via PyQt GUI, including portfolio value, Sharpe ratios, and trade breakdowns.



Key Results

Data Quality:  pipeline ensures clean, reliable stock data with computed indicators.
Prediction Accuracy: Ensemble methods improve Sharpe ratio forecasts
Trading Performance: System optimizes profit-to-risk-to-time ratio, with GUI enabling user-driven strategy adjustments.
User Experience: Intuitive PyQt interface provides clear visualizations and actionable recommendations.

Limitations

Relies on historical data from Yahoo Finance, which may have gaps or inaccuracies.
Model performance depends on data quality and market conditions.
Insider trading scores are rule-based and may not capture all market dynamics.

Future Work

Integrate real-time data feeds for dynamic trading.
Add advanced models (e.g., Transformer-based) for improved predictions.
Enhance GUI 
Incorporate alternative data sources (e.g., news sentiment, social media) for richer insights.
